README.md, before:


go.vm
-----

This project is a golang based compiler and intepreter for a simple virtual
machine.  It is a port of the existing project:

* https://github.com/skx/simple.vm

(The original project has a perl based compiler/decompiler and an interpreter
written in C.)


# Installation

Install the code via:

    $ go get -u  github.com/skx/go.vm
    $ go install github.com/skx/go.vm

Once installed there are three sub-commands of interest:

* `go.vm compile $file.in`
   * Compiles the given program into bytecode.
* `go.vm execute $file.raw`
   * Given the path to a file of bytecode, then interpret it.
* `go.vm run $file.in`
   * Compiles the specified program, then directly executes it.

So to compile the input-file `examples/hello.in` into bytecode:

     $ go.vm compile examples/hello.in

Then to execute the resulting bytecode:

     $ go.vm execute examples/hello.raw

Or you can handle both steps at once:

     $ go.vm run examples/hello.in


# Notes

## compiler

The compiler is built in a traditional fashion:

* Input is split into tokens via [lexer.go](lexer/lexer.go)
  * This uses the [token.go](token/token.go) for the definition of constants.
* The stream of tokens is iterated over by [compiler.go](compiler/compiler.go)
  * This uses the constants in [opcodes.go](opcodes/opcodes.go) for the bytecode generation


## interpreter

The intepreter is located in the file [cpu.go](cpu/cpu.go) and is
as simple and naive as you would expect.

Steve
--

Commit message:

Updated to link to examples

README.md, after:


go.vm
-----

This project is a golang based compiler and intepreter for a simple virtual
machine.  It is a port of the existing project:

* https://github.com/skx/simple.vm

(The original project has a perl based compiler/decompiler and an interpreter
written in C.)

You can get a feel for what it looks like by refering to either the parent
project, or [the examples](examples/) contained in this repository.

This particular virtual machine is intentionally simple, but despite that it is hopefully implemented in a readable fashion.  ("Simplicity" here means that we support only a small number of instructions, and the 16-registers the virtual CPU possesses can store strings and integers, but not floating-point values.)


# Installation

Install the code via:

    $ go get -u  github.com/skx/go.vm
    $ go install github.com/skx/go.vm

Once installed there are three sub-commands of interest:

* `go.vm compile $file.in`
   * Compiles the given program into bytecode.
* `go.vm execute $file.raw`
   * Given the path to a file of bytecode, then interpret it.
* `go.vm run $file.in`
   * Compiles the specified program, then directly executes it.

So to compile the input-file `examples/hello.in` into bytecode:

     $ go.vm compile examples/hello.in

Then to execute the resulting bytecode:

     $ go.vm execute examples/hello.raw

Or you can handle both steps at once:

     $ go.vm run examples/hello.in


# Notes

## compiler

The compiler is built in a traditional fashion:

* Input is split into tokens via [lexer.go](lexer/lexer.go)
  * This uses the [token.go](token/token.go) for the definition of constants.
* The stream of tokens is iterated over by [compiler.go](compiler/compiler.go)
  * This uses the constants in [opcodes.go](opcodes/opcodes.go) for the bytecode generation


## interpreter

The intepreter is located in the file [cpu.go](cpu/cpu.go) and is
as simple and naive as you would expect.

Steve
--
